DATA 
----
Data are characteristic, usually numerical that are collected through observations.
Data are set of values of qualitative or quantitative variables about one or more persons or objects.
Any facts  or figure about an entity is called data.


INFORMATION
-----------
Information is the result of processing data.
Information is the processed data that has been analyzed and interpreted to provide meaningful insights.
Data is tranformed into information when viewed in context or in post-analysis.


DATABASE
--------
Database is a organized collection of related data(Relational Database).
Database is a collection of data that is stored in a way that allows for efficient retrieval and manipulation.
The data is usually stored in the form of tables.


DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM(DBMS)
--------------------------------
DBMS is a software that allows you to define, create, maintain and manipulate databases.


PROBLEM WITH THE FILE SYSTEM
----------------------------
1.Data redundancy and inconsistency : Imagine two spreadsheets that list employee contacts, but one is updated with new phone number while the other is not, leading to confusion aobut the correct number to use.

2.Difficulty accessing data : If you have multiple spreadsheets with different data, it can be hard to find the information you need.

3.Data isolation : If customer profiles are stored  in one system and their order histories in another, merging this info for a comprehensive view can be cumbersome.

4.Integrity Problem : After a customer updates their address on one page of the website, they find  the older address on another page because the change did not carry through all the systems.

5.Atomicity Problem : If a customer places an order and the system fails after charging their card but before updating the order status , the customer will be charged but the order will not be recorded.
(agar start kiya h toh khatm karo....else start hi na karo)

6.Concurrect access anomalies :  If two customers try to update their profiles at the same time, the system may produce inconsistent results.


INSTANCE AND SCHEMAS
--------------------
Instance is a collection of data in a database at a particular moment.
Schema is a description of the structure of a database.
Schema is a blueprint of the database.